📖 Documentation for deploy-image plugin (#2751)
kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder: docs/book/src/plugins/deploy-image-plugin-v1-alpha.md

## How to use it ?

After you create a new project with `kubebuilder init` you can create APIs informing this plugin. Ensure that you followed up the [quick start](https://book.kubebuilder.io/quick-start.html) before trying to use it.

Then, by using this plugin you can [create APIs][https://book.kubebuilder.io/cronjob-tutorial/gvks.html] informing the image (Operand) that you would like to deploy on the cluster. Note that you can optionally inform what is the command that should be used to initialize this container via the flag `--image-command` as the port that should be used with `--image-port`, i.e:

```sh
kubebuilder create api --group example.com --version v1alpha1 --kind Memcached --image=memcached:1.6.15-alpine --image-container-command="memcached -m=64 modern -v" --image-container-port="11211" --plugins="deploy-image/v1-alpha"
```

## Subcommands

The deploy-image plugin implements the following subcommands:

- create api (`$ kubebuilder create api [OPTIONS]`)

## Affected files

By calling create api with this plugin in additionally to what is created and updated by default we have the following customizations on top:

> - `controllers/*_controller.go`

Reviewer: It will be `controllers/{group}/*_controller.go` when multigroup is enabled.

Reviewer 2: we can add this line as well ^ . good point

> - `controllers/*_suite_test.go`

Reviewer: It will be `controllers/{group}/*_controller.go` when multigroup is enabled.

> - `api/*_types.go` (scaffold the specs for the new api)

Reviewer: It should be `api/{version}/*_types.go`. And it will be `apis/{group}/{version}/*_types.go` when multigroup is enabled.

Reviewer: Note that this is not fixed yet. It should be `api/<version>/*_types.go` instead of `api/*_types.go`  :)

# Deploy Image Plugin

The deploy-image plugin allows you to create [controllers][controller-runtime] and custom resources which will deploy and manage an image on the cluster following
the guidelines and best practices. It abstracts the complexities to achieve this goal and still giving the possibility of users improve and customize their projects
according to their requirements.

<aside class="note">
<h1>Examples</h1>

> You can check samples using this plugin by looking at the "project-v3-with-deploy-image" sample inside
> the [testdata][testdata] directory of the Kubebuilder project.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Se the project "project-v3-with-deploy-image" under the [testdata][testdata] directory of the Kubebuilder project to check an example of the scaffold produced with this plugin.
```

</aside>

## When to use it ?

> - If you are looking to scaffold an operator solution which helps you in deploying an image of your application, so that you do not need to know exactly how to implement it.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If you are getting started with the [Operator pattern](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/operator/), Kubebuilder and [controller-runtime](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/controller-runtime) this plugin can help you
- If you are looking to Deploy and Manage an image (Operand) using  [Operator pattern](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/operator/) and the tool the plugin will create an API/controller to be reconciled and achieve this goal
- If you are looking for examples and recommendations you might want to check out the scaffold done by this plugin 
```

## How to use it ?

After initializing the project with one of the available Golang plugins.

```sh

> kubebuilder init --plugins=go/v3 --domain example.org --repo example.org/guestbook-operator

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
kubebuilder create api --group example.com --version v1alpha1 --kind Memcached --image=memcached:1.6.15-alpine --image-container-command="memcached -m=64 modern -v" --image-container-port="11211" --plugins="deploy-image/v1-alpha"
```

```

> You will need to use deploy-image/v1-alpha plugin for creating the custom resource and controller which will deploy and manage your image on the cluster. Use --image flag (available only for this plugin) to state your image.
> 
> ```sh
> kubebuilder create api --plugins=deploy-image/v1-alpha --group ship --version v1beta1 --kind Frigate
> --image=example.com/frigate:v0.0.1
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Then, I think we can remove this one

## Subcommands

The deploy-image plugin implements the following subcommands:

- create api (`$ kubebuilder create api [OPTIONS]`)

## Affected files

> The following scaffolds will be created or updated by this plugin:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By calling create api with this plugin additionally to what is created and update by default we have the following customizations on top:
```

> - `controllers/*_controller.go`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `controllers/*_controller.go` (the plugins scaffold the code implementation on the controller created)

```

> - `controllers/*_suite_test.go`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Not yet. We did not implemented the tests yet

> - `controllers/*_suite_test.go`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
not yet implemented

> - `api/*_types.go`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `api/*_types.go` (scaffold the specs for the new api)

```

> - `api/*_groupversion_info.go`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> - `config/samples/*_.yaml`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `config/samples/*_.yaml` (scaffold default values for its CR)

```

Author: Updated with suggested changes.

> - `hack/boilerplate.txt`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

according to their requirements.

<aside class="note">
<h1>Examples</h1>

See the project "project-v3-with-deploy-image" under the [testdata][testdata] directory of the Kubebuilder project to check an example of the scaffold produced with this plugin.

</aside>

## When to use it ?

- If you are getting started with the [Operator pattern](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/operator/), Kubebuilder and [controller-runtime](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/controller-runtime) this plugin can help you
- If you are looking to Deploy and Manage an image (Operand) using [Operator pattern](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/operator/) and the tool the plugin will create an API/controller to be reconciled and achieve this goal
- If you are looking for examples and recommendations you might want to check out the scaffold done by this plugin

## How to use it ?

After you create a new project with `kubebuilder init` you can create APIs informing this plugin. Ensure that you followed up the [quick start](https://book.kubebuilder.io/quick-start.html) before trying to use it.

> Then, by using this plugin you can [create APIs][https://book.kubebuilder.io/cronjob-tutorial/gvks.html] informing the image (Operand) that you would like to deploy on the cluster. Note that you can optionally inform what is the command that should be used to initialize this container via the flag `--image-container-command` as the port that should be used with `--image-container-port`. You can also specify the RunAsUser value for the Security Context of the container via the flag `--run-as-user`., i.e:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Then, by using this plugin you can [create APIs][https://book.kubebuilder.io/cronjob-tutorial/gvks.html] informing the image (Operand) that you would like to deploy on the cluster. Note that you can optionally specify the command that could be used to initialize this container via the flag `--image-container-command` and the port  with `--image-container-port` flag. You can also specify `RunAsUser` value for the Security Context of the container via the flag `--run-as-user`., i.e:
```

```sh

> kubebuilder create api --group example.com --version v1alpha1 --kind Memcached --image=memcached:1.6.15-alpine --image-container-command="memcached -m=64 modern -v" --image-container-port="11211" --plugins="deploy-image/v1-alpha"

Reviewer 2: @NikhilSharmaWe we need to update here, see the command values ^

> kubebuilder create api --group example.com --version v1alpha1 --kind Memcached --image=memcached:1.6.15-alpine --image-container-command="memcached -m=64 modern -v" --image-container-port="11211" --run-as-user="1001" --plugins="deploy-image/v1-alpha"

Reviewer 2: @NikhilSharmaWe we pass the commands splitted by "," right?
Because we are splitting the string. We need to update this one here.

> kubebuilder create api --group example.com --version v1alpha1 --kind Memcached --image=memcached:1.6.15-alpine --image-container-command="memcached -m=64 modern -v" --image-container-port="11211" --run-as-user="1001" --plugins="deploy-image/v1-alpha"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
kubebuilder create api --group example.com --version v1alpha1 --kind Memcached --image=memcached:1.6.15-alpine --image-container-command="memcached,-m=64,modern,-v" --image-container-port="11211" --run-as-user="1001" --plugins="deploy-image/v1-alpha"

```

```

## Subcommands

The deploy-image plugin implements the following subcommands:

- create api (`$ kubebuilder create api [OPTIONS]`)

## Affected files

> By calling create api with this plugin in additionally to what is created and updated by default we have the following customizations on top:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With the `create api` command of this plugin, in addition to the existing scaffolding, the following files are affected:
```

When multigroup is not enabled

- `controllers/*_controller.go`
- `controllers/*_suite_test.go`
- `api/<version>/*_types.go` (scaffold the specs for the new api)
- `config/samples/*_.yaml` (scaffold default values for its CR)

> When multigroup is enabled

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When multigroup is enabled
```suggestion
**When multigroup is enabled**

```
```
